PSPP is a program for statistical analysis of sampled data.  It is
a free replacement for the proprietary program SPSS.

PSPP supports T-tests, ANOVA and GLM analyses, factor analysis,
non-parametric tests, linear and logistic regression, clustering,
and other statistical features.  PSPP produces statistical reports in
plain text, PDF, PostScript, CSV, HTML, SVG, and OpenDocument formats.
It can import data from OpenDocument, Gnumeric, text and SPSS formats.

PSPP has both text-based and graphical user interfaces.  The PSPP
user interface has been translated into a number of languages.

Instructions for PSPP installation are in INSTALL, including a list of
prerequisite packages and other PSPP-specific information.  Full
documentation on PSPP's language is also included.

For information on differences from previous versions, please see file
NEWS.

Source code for the latest release of PSPP is available at
ftp://ftp.gnu.org/pub/gnu/pspp/.  Test releases are at
ftp://alpha.gnu.org/gnu/pspp/.  Development sources are available
at https://savannah.gnu.org/projects/pspp

Questions and comments about using PSPP may be sent to
pspp-users@gnu.org.  Please email bug reports to bug-gnu-pspp@gnu.org
or file them online at https://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/?group=pspp.

The PSPP bug tracker and bug reporting mailing list are public.  To
privately report a security vulnerability in GNU PSPP, please send
your report to the closed mailing list pspp-security@gnu.org.  The
PSPP developers will help you assess your report and fix problems
prior to public disclosure.

The long term goals for PSPP are ambitious.  We wish to provide the
following support to users:

	* All of the SPSS transformation language.  PSPP already
          supports a large subset of it.

	* All the statistical procedures that someone is willing to
          implement, whether they exist in SPSS or not.

	* Compatibility with SPSS syntax, including compatibility with
          known bugs and warts, where it makes sense.  We also provide
          an "enhanced" mode in certain cases where PSPP can output
          better results that may surprise SPSS users.

	* Friendly textual and graphical interfaces.

	* Good documentation.  Currently the PSPP manual describes its
          language completely, but we would like to add information on
          how to select statistical procedures and interpret their
          results.

	* Efficient support for very large data sets.  For procedures
          where it is practical, we wish to efficiently support data
          sets many times larger than physical memory.  The framework
          for this feature is already in place. It has not been tuned
          or extensively tested, however initial experience has given
          impressive results.

Over the long term, we also wish to provide support to developers who
wish to extend PSPP with new statistical procedures, by supplying the
following:

	* Easy-to-use support for parsing language syntax.  Currently,
          parsing is done by writing "recursive descent" code by hand,
          with some support for automated parsing of the most common
          constructs.  We wish to improve the situation by supplying a
          more complete and flexible parser generator.

	* Eventually, a plug-in interface for procedures.  Over the
          short term, the interface between the PSPP core and
          statistical procedures is evolving quickly enough that a
          plug-in model does not make sense.  Over the long term, it
          may make sense to introduce plug-ins.

For any copyright year range specified as YYYY-ZZZZ in this package note
that the range specifies every single year in that closed interval.
